What really breaks down collaboration
between sales and marketing and how do
you fix it for real? In this week's
episode, I am joined today by B2B
strategist and author Pam Dner. She will
reveal what happens when teams misalign,
how to rebuild trusts among team
members, and why shared KPIs aren't
enough. We're diving deep into the
mindset, structure, and culture needed
to make revenue teams actually work
together and how AI will affect and
change the way we collaborate. This is
Strategy Talks. I'll be right back.
Let's strategize
together.
Let's hear it
from an expert.
Join the conversation. It's informative
and free.
You and me. Let's talk some strategy.
Now, here's your host, Darin Morin
Vanam.
Hello everybody. Welcome back to another
episode of Strategy Talks. I am so
excited to be here today with Pam Dner
who we're going to talk about
collaboration between sales and
marketing. Yes, whether you're on team
marketing or team sales or team revenue
or team owner, I don't care. This is
going to be amazing. I want to welcome
all of you here live with us on
Facebook, LinkedIn, YouTube, and those
of you who watch this show on replay.
Quite a few of you do that every week.
Last but not least, I want to welcome
those of you who listen to Strategy
Talks as a podcast. We appreciate you.
We see your numbers each and every week
and we're very excited that you take the
time to listen to this podcast. So, I'm
going to introduce you to my friend Pam.
Hey, Pam. How are you today? Dorine,
thank you so much for having me. Oh my
god, I love that jingle. That's the
first time I heard it. It was so cute.
>> I know. I love it, too. My son wrote it,
uh, composed it and sang it for me, and
it's been on the show for almost four
years, and it's not going to change
right now. I love it. So, yes.
>> Mother and son collaboration.
All right. I like that a lot. I like
that a lot.
>> Yes. So, uh, Pam, I'm gonna go right
into it, right?
>> Why
>> many companies keep sales and marketing
teams away from each other, whether
that's by design or accident, I don't
know. But this is what we're going to
talk about today. Why they should be
working together and how to do in a way
that feels good and yields results for
all the teams. So, before we dive in,
why do you think it's 2025? Why is this
still happening? Why are people
why are we doing this?
>> Well, I really think that sales and
marketing, we all have a different
mindsets and uh sales tend to focus on
the top of the funnel. I'm sorry. Sales
tend to focus on the middle of the
funnel and the marketing tend to focus
on top of the funnel and uh we tend to
focus on more brand awareness and demand
generation and the sales is about let's
close the deals, let's close the deals,
right? So I think the mindset is a
little bit different and uh on top of it
we the sales people tend to not we in
terms of sales people I'm actually on
the marketing side I apologize. So the
marketing people tend to focus on let's
build a relationship and let's nurture
right our prospect and the sales people
it's about relationship building as well
but at the same time like what okay we
can build a relationship but at the same
time do we have do you have a budget do
you need a tools right now should we
talk they are more like a hunter's
mindset right if they're hunting
something if it's not if it's not going
anywhere they are going to move to a
different target. So I think the mindset
and also how we approach the prospects
tend to be a little bit different.
>> Do you also think that from the top down
seuite influences how sales and
marketing whether they talk to each
other and how they communicate do you
think that still influences that? Oh yes
certainly you know a lot of time
especially in uh in any companies
doesn't matter it's a small companies
mid-size company or enterprises I think
the the the seues behavior does impact
in terms of how worker bees like us
behave so if the VP of sales and also
CMO or even CEO they talk to each other
all the time in a very close alignments
and you will see sales and marketing
also in a close alignment.
>> However, if the BP of sales and also
CMO, they tend to do their own things,
then you kind of see the two
organizations do their own things
>> and uh it's not necessarily good and
bad. Honestly, it really depends on the
company culture. I have know several
companies especially on the
manufacturing segments that the sales
and marketing they don't really have you
know any kind of overlapping
communications but in the past three or
four decades they've been working pretty
well you know and but I also have
noticed that with the digital marketing
right now day everything is connected
right everybody's on the phone all the
time and the customer journeys from one
stage to another tend to be interlocked
and interconnected. In certain segments,
the sales and marketing collaboration
really needs to happen. If it doesn't
happen, it does create a gap in terms of
a customer experience
>> and it can impact revenue directly.
Correct.
>> 100%. 100%. And a lot of time when you
are looking at in in terms of sales and
you know this pretty well, you have the
prospect coming to the door, right? And
then the the the marketing probably will
do the initial qualification. Then you
move on to you pass that patent on the
on the sales side and then the sales
schedule the meeting. But every single
touch point there's always a chance that
prospect is not going to convert.
And so you have to really understand
between the transition from the sales to
marketing and also even from marketing
to marketing or sales to sales. How can
we keep that
conversation and engagement going?
>> Yeah, that is so good. It's so
important. So I've kind of done some
research on the things that you talk
about and one of the things you've
spoken about is that marketing needs to
adopt a mindset of helping sales win
>> when Yes.
>> Right. And then in your experience with
doing that, what's the most
counterintuitive thing that you've seen
marketing do that actually inhibited
sales rather than help them? And how did
you flip it?
>> That's a great question. I don't know if
it's the counterintuitive things that
they do. It's more or less kind of like
I would say the mindset that you need to
have kind I indicated that a little
earlier. It has something to do with
like okay we have a list of a marketing
content. If we created a blog post, we
created ebook and um we actually have a
podcast kind of like what you have. We
have tons of content on the marketing
side and the marketers probably know for
all these pieces of content how does
that fit into the customer journey.
Okay, it's probably very intuitive for a
lot of marketers. But when you share the
content, a lot of time the sales people
will say, "You know what? I'm sending an
email out." They don't talk that way,
but I do. We sending an email out. I
need some content to attach to part of
my email. And that's great. But the
thing is, instead of sending the
salespeople a list of a marketing
content, why don't you classify the
contents that you have into a sales
stages,
>> not customer journey, but sales stages.
how the salespeople actually move for
their prospect alone. Is that helpful?
So classify the content in the way they
understand.
>> Oh, that's even better.
>> That's right. So you build kind of like
a little table. It's a cheat sheet. A
lot of times some of the companies
actually have the sales content
management library. So in a ma sales
content management library you can
identify different sales stages to tag
it for all your content pieces but
sometimes you don't have that if you
don't have it can you create a little
cheat sheet for your salespeople and
said hey if you are doing this these are
the type of content you should use if
you are doing that these are the type of
content you you can use so give them a
little bit of guidance actually helps
tremendously
>> that's wonderful and I'm thinking I'm a
content strategist so I'm thinking
frequently asked questions, how do we
work with you and and research that
we've done, case studies, right? If you
put them in the right space, then the
sales managers or the salespeople can
just grab that and attach it and then
they own it too because that's the other
thing that I'm hearing you say instead
of marketing serving it up and saying,
"Here you go." Um it's if it's available
to a sales team and they get trained on
that or they have that cheat sheet
available, they can make the choices and
then they'll start seeing results from
giving the right prospect the right
content I'm assuming.
>> Yeah. And then nowaday you can even use
chat GBT or AI bot to help you right you
can actually have list of a content
upload it the the content into a chat
GBT or even AI bot and it just basically
specify you know what is your
recommendation you can ask AI you have
your own point of view definitely right
you can also ask AI so how would you
structure how would you recommend in
terms of how these different piece of
content fit into a different sales
stages of course you have to share and
articulate your sales stages with uh
with a child GBT or AI bot and see what
is your recommendations and at the same
time have your own point of view right
not just take what AI said blindly but
have your own point of view and make
adjustment and hopefully by doing that
it save you tons of time instead of
classifying and thinking it through
>> that makes a lot of sense so Pam we're
talking about businesses brands B2B
maybe even B2C that have sales teams.
>> Sure.
>> Is there a difference between having a
small team? I've been on teams where I'm
the only marketer. I've been on teams
where, you know, they have only one or
two salespeople, but then there's teams
where, you know,
>> hundreds. Is there a difference in in
how you would facilitate? If you go into
a company and you help them make that
connection, is there a difference in how
you facilitate or how you would move
that along between a small team and a
large company that has lots of people?
>> So the way I usually address that is for
smaller team if you are one or two
person marketing team and you are
supporting say 10 salespeople if you
think about that the ratio is really 2
to 10 or 1 to 10. So that's very
manageable. However, most of the time
even in the bigger enterprises, the
number of the salespeople versus the
number of marketing people, it tend to
be much bigger sales team versus small
uh headcount of the marketing team.
That's always the case.
>> Yeah.
>> I don't think I ever run into any
organization that they actually have a
marketing headcount that's bigger than
sales headcount. Never.
>> I don't think so.
>> Never. So usually the bigger sales team
and a smaller marketing team. Yeah.
>> So the way I usually look at it is the
ratio between the two.
>> Okay.
>> Right. So if one to 10 or even 2 to 10
that means it's 1:5 ratio. That's not
bad. But a lot of time in a bigger
organization it tend to be 1 to 80 for
example. Does that make sense? Seriously
it's a much bigger sales team and a
smaller uh uh marketing organization. In
that specific case, you have to think it
through in terms of like, okay, if you
are one marketing people and the ratio
between one marketing versus sales on
the sales side is substantially higher,
there's no way you can support all the
sales people.
What you need to do is kind of determine
you have to work on the sales side,
right? You can you need to determine in
terms of can you support them based on
accounts instead of a number of
salespeople. Is it possible you can
support the high revenue or high impact
strategic accounts? That's number one.
And number two is you have to scale.
That's assume you are one person have to
support um the southeast region of the
80 salespeople. Then you have to think
through like the stuff that you share
with them is it can that be standardized
or so you can teach them how to fish.
Right? A lot of time trust me I work
with tons of sales people. They were
like just give that to me. Al don't talk
that way. I do. So instead of giving
them something, you can tell them you
give them something that's
semi-standardized and you have to tell
them you need to actually make some
modification.
>> So because when you support that many
salespeople, you cannot do customize all
the time.
>> No. So you have to think it through in
terms of the number of the people you
support and uh can you prioritize that's
number one or if you cannot prioritize
and you have to support everyone then
you have to standardize it.
>> I love that answer. Oh wow that like my
brain is thinking like I have a couple
of clients. I'm like oh my god this is
great. This is really that's going to be
really helpful. So let's talk AI. You
wrote books about using AI right?
Generally AI is out there. How do you
foresee the role of human sales marketer
partnerships evolving with AI in there?
Will there be collaboration between
sales marketing and AI? Will it be
better? Will it be worse? What's
happening? You've got your books right
there behind you. Modern AI marketer.
Let's talk AI and sales and marketing
teams.
>> Yeah. So, first of all, I just want
everybody to know that I write small
books. This is like only 100 pages. And
the way I tell people about reading this
book is you can read this book and watch
Netflix at the same time.
>> Does it have a good index? People can
scan it.
>> Yeah. You're just like, you know what?
And everybody was like, "What chapter
should I read?" I was a four, five, and
six. That's it.
>> Okay. Well, you know, that's great. I I
wish I had a book. I don't have a book
yet. So, I totally admired that. That's
awesome.
>> It's a lot of work. Trust me, it's not
worth it.
>> You didn't hear that here. No, we all
want
>> I THINK IT'S NOT WORTH OF write spend so
much time writing it. That's my point.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Okay. All right. So,
>> so now let's come back to AI
>> marketing. Yes. How do we integrate
that? Will it is it causing a divide? Is
it bringing people together? How can we
use it? And how is somebody that's a
CMO, that's a owner that's watching
this, listening to this and saying,
"We're bringing in the AI tools. We want
our teams to be closer. What are things
that we have to be careful about that we
don't do?"
>> Very good question. So there's a couple
things I want to say. First of all,
remember I always come back to a
mindset. From my perspective, everything
we do, we need to have a certain kind of
mindset. And for AI, I always encourage
my clients have the mindset of like if
you have any questions, go ask Chad GBT
first. That's the mindset. By the way,
I'm not asking you to rely on Chad GBT.
The only remember nowadays
in the past 10 years, where do we go?
Google
>> Google best restaurant near me, you
Google. And or you have like what is
ABM, you Google, right? So what I want
my clients to do or any one of you who
are listening is changing their mindset
a little bit. Instead of googling can
you also go to Chad GBT and ask the same
question. I'm not asking you to rely on
Chad GBT heavily. No, I'm only asking
you to change your mindset, change your
behavior a little bit. If you are
intimidated by it, that's the first
step.
>> Okay? But if you are using it on every
single day and the JGBT or AI buys your
BFF, okay, fine. Your mindset's already
changed. Great.
>> Yeah.
>> The number two is I want to make sure
everybody understand and I heard this
from Andy Christina and I think it's
great. The answers the answers provided
by bot
are recommendations.
They are not panacea.
Please don't take everything they said
as if like yes is true. No, it's not.
You need to have a point of view. You
need to have a point of view. You need
to be able to read it and have it then
be able to judge. It's like, okay, this
is somehow on the right track or it's
completely off. That's number two. So
number three is don't blindly copy and
paste. Please don't do that. every no
even though you are asking Chari to
write an email and you said in Pam
Dinner's tone and voice that's great
when you read it see it as a first draft
and you need to edit it
>> I'm gonna add to that you need to push
back I just did a newsletter on LinkedIn
and I've uploaded like 20 newsletters in
my own voice and I've I've used it you
know it's like the newsletter bot that I
use and you know I pick a topic I say
this is what I want to talk about and
today it's spit out something that was
not sounding like written at all I'm
like
>> you know what this is not good you go
back and you read all the instructions
and all the old newsletters and make it
sound like me I don't mind doing editing
because I will do editing but this is
not me at all and it was like oh you're
right so
So I actually I had just shared exactly
a similar story and when I was writing
this book I really want to be lazy. I
don't want to write this book. I was
like that's too much work and actually
hire developer. I'm not kidding. I paid
this developer like money and I said you
and I going to work on the prompts
together and we are going to enter uh
uploaded tons of my stuff. I want AI to
write this book because I'm going to say
the author is AI. I don't care. You know
what I'm saying? It's just like, yeah,
whatever. So, we tried
for four days
like really tried different prompts,
tried different things, uploaded
different files and uh and uh we tried
we did a AI agents, we also did various
of
u forget it.
>> It didn't sound like you at all.
>> It doesn't work. No. So I have come to
realize that I am the one still have to
put the skeleton of the book together. I
need to do the outline. But they are
very good
editing say a paragraphs at a time.
>> But in terms of like the whole book or
even a very specific chapter not so much
I not my standard because they can
write. I mean, I'm not saying AI cannot
write, but the problem is they put so
many flowery words together.
When you read it, there's no substance,
>> right?
>> You are the writer. You know exactly
what I'm talking about.
>> Yeah. And you need to
>> There's a bunch of words they add
together. It sounds like, oh my god, it
sounds like, oh, you know stuff. And
then you read it, you're like, what?
>> This is the emperor without clothes.
>> I know. You need to write a BOOK ABOUT
THAT NEXT. That sounds like a great book
to read. Oh, I love that. That would
that sounds like a wonderful experiment.
So, AI using teams. So, when you go in
and you do trainings for sales and
marketing teams.
>> Yes. Do
>> you I'm just curious. I don't know the
answer. Do you help them set up bots? Do
you tell them to share bots? Do you like
how do you do you tell them to share
tools? Yeah. what what are some of the
things that you do to help them move
forward and that AI can help them with?
>> Great question. Most of my uh AI
training is 100% customized and tailored
based on that company's needs. So in
general I have conversations with their
CMOs and also the marketing directors
and they will tell me specifically in
terms of how they are using AI or not
using AI this time and then I will build
the AI training based on that
>> and like many uh enterprises the only AI
tool they can use is co-pilot
>> they cannot even use child GBT they can
only use co-pilot but for co-pilot Once
copilot is embedded into uh Microsoft
Office suite. So if you actually have a
paid version of it, you will see copilot
as a part of excel. You will see
co-pilot on the upper right hand corner
as a part of powerpoints or as a part of
outlook. And uh a lot of time the
marketers they don't know how to use
like co-pilot in every single
applications
every single application. Then my job is
kind of like show them how they can use
that effectively. That's number one.
Number two is in my current training
that I'm doing is still very much
focused at the individual level like how
everyone can prompt effectively what you
can use the say co-pilot more
effectively within the Microsoft Office
applications. So there's still a lot of
that you know kind of trying to get
themselves ramp up and then of course
now everybody's ramp up then you can
look at the AI at the team level that
make sense then that's you have to look
into okay can you create agents yourself
and if agents that you create
>> the agents you create are very good can
that be shared within the team
>> that will be the next level and then of
course The level after that is you look
into the workflows and then you create
agents to do certain tasks and and
automate that workflow. That's the next
level. So there's a multiple stages but
at this point many many organization is
still at the the first phase and a
little bit on the second phase.
>> Yeah. And I have a side question for you
because this was fascinating to me that
I was at a conference um this summer and
they had a panel about AI and somebody
threw out the statistics that 70% of
employees are bringing AI to work and
that a lot of employers have no idea
because they have chat GPT on their
phone in their pocket and they're using
it for work but they don't have AI
policies surrounding that. When you do
these trainings, is that what you find?
You're focusing on the individual and do
people confess like, "Oh, yeah. I'm
already using it. I have it on my
phone." Or do you do do you really go
into, you know, this is for the brand,
this is how we do it, and you know, put
that phone away kind of thing.
>> Yeah. So, it really depends on
companies. Certain there are many
companies that they the company cultures
are very conservative. So if you work
for companies who are which are very
conservative, you know that you you
cannot cross the line.
>> Does that make sense?
>> Yeah. So in that situation a lot of
company will just be a lot of employees
will say we don't have a policy yet and
the company kind of say we cannot use it
and they don't use work they don't use
say chargbt work related they still do
it for personal usage
>> right
>> and any company that basically um said
you can only use co-pilot that's already
they already have a AI policy in place
because they say you cannot use anything
else you can only use co-pilot and many
many enterprises actually uh initiated
and they have a conversation with
employees or uh send out a newsletter
and let everybody know that they can
only use co-pilots and I have at least
five companies reach out to me and say
can you do AI trainings for us the only
tool we can talk about is co-pilot
nothing else
>> right
>> so it depends on the companies and uh my
thought is you kind of know what kind of
company you work for and with and in
terms of corporate culture and you can
make a gauge in terms of should you do
it or should you not. So
>> that makes that makes a lot of sense. So
I have one last question before we
break. We're already at 25 minutes. I
could talk to you for another hour, but
here we here it is. If marketing and
sales had to switch roles for one
quarter, same goals, same tools, same
internal p pressure. What do you think
each team would finally appreciate about
the other that they're missing right
now? Because sales think they they're
the bomb because they make sales,
marketing think they're the bomb because
they, you know, do the nurturing. What
do you think would happen if sales and
marketing teams for a whole quarter
would switch, you know?
>> Yeah.
>> I think they will find that each job,
both sides jobs are kind of challenging
in their own ways. Like can you imagine
marketers close deals and they have to
meet quarterly and a monthly quarter. I
think that's going to stresses marketing
people out. They were like, "What? I
only have 30 days and I have to meet a
revenue target. Oh my god. Oh my god. Oh
my god." And then um the sales people on
the other side was like, "I don't
understand. It should not be that hard
to write this blog post, right? I don't
know why it's taking you guys five days
to write it." And then when they started
writing, they were like, "I don't know
what to say." You know what I'm saying?
So I think have them swapped not
necessarily a bad things but you will
kind of have a chance to feel the pain
points of each other and hopefully by
doing that and we will not do that in
the real life but understanding that
will actually help them to work uh
closerly together.
>> That makes that makes sense. Awesome. So
Pam, where can people connect with you
if somebody wants AI training? if they
want to know more about what you do and
if they're like, "Oh my gosh, I'm on a
sales team and I don't really have any
idea what marketing does or I'm on a
marketing team and I really need to make
one of these, you know, checklists for
my sales team. How can people connect
with you and where can they find you?
Where are you um where are you visible
online?"
>> I'm actually on every single channel,
including Tik Tok. So, I do my dance.
All right, I'm kidding.
I don't dance.
>> I was gonna GO I'M GONNA GO RIGHT TO
>> I don't dance. I'm not very good at it.
I try. All right. And I don't mind
embarrassing the heck out of myself.
Long story short is I'm on every single
channel and uh I'm probably most active
on LinkedIn like other business
profession knows. And uh and I'm also
have my own website. So you can reach
out to me um like on my website or you
can reach out to me on LinkedIn or any
other channels honestly. And uh the
bottom line is I know how hard it is to
be a marketer. I do. And I also know how
challenging it is to be a salesperson.
If you need a therapy session, just
reach out to me on LinkedIn. We can
talk. And you can also um um chat with
me, you know, like send me an email and
more than happy to address any questions
that you have.
>> Awesome. And I know that you also speak
at conferences. Is there any upcoming
conferences that you're going to be at
that people could potentially find you?
>> Yeah, I do a lot of private enterprises
training. So, if you need that, reach
out to me anytime. I will be a B2B forum
in November and uh there's a B2B MX in
March. Um they are uh other conferences
right now I'm in the process of
discussing and hopefully if you sign up
for my newsletter or if you follow me
and connect with me on LinkedIn you will
see where I will be.
>> Perfect. Perfect. I'll make sure to link
everything in the show notes that you
can connect with Pam. Thank you so much
for staying with us all the way to the
end. I appreciate all of you being here.
Pam, thank you for your time today and
your expertise. I love this
conversation. I'll be back next week
with another episode of Strategy Talks.
Bye.
>> Thank you so much. Take care. Bye-bye.